in this video let us learn how to convert
Iterative function into recursive function First let us
take a simple problem for the given positive number n
we need to print all the numbers from n to one
For example if n is five we need to print
So what will be the iterative logic For this problem
Let us write an iterative function iteration with parameter n
now let us write a while loop while n greater
than or equal to one
And in each iteration of this while loop print n
and then decrement n
So all the numbers n,n minus one,n minus
two up to one will be printed
Now we will learn how to convert this iterative function
to recursive function Here we are using a while
loop to print the numbers in recursion we need
to call the function itself to achieve the task
So write the function name that is Recursion every
time the value of n is decremented by one in
the while loop
So in recursion we can send decremented n
value in each recursive call
So write recursion of minus minus
n this while loop will terminate when the value of n
is less than one
Likewise we can add the base case in recursion
So add the base case to stop the recursive calls
So write if n is less than one returned
So also we need to add the print statement to
print the numbers and that's it
We have converted the iterative logic into Recursive logic
So instead of a loop we have use the Recursive
function called an instead of the termination condition
We have added the base case in Recursion and
iterated logic
We update the value of n by decrementing it
inside the loop
But in recursion we have sent that as the parameter
so led us see
Another example
To understand it better let us write the iterative logic
to reverse the string
So first write the iterative function reverse by passing the
string str and its length n first declare variable
I now use a for loop from i equal to zero
to I less than n by two and in each iteration
swap first and last characters of the string
So write swap str of i and str of n
minus i minus one
Now let us convert this iterative logic into recursive logic
Like the previous example Let us pass the iterating
variable as a parameter so add the variable I to
the parameter list Next what
we will do
We will convert the looping statement into a recursive call
So write the function name reverse
And in each iteration of the for loop we are
incrementing the iterating variable I
So in each recursive call pass the string str
and incremented iterating variable I plus one and size
of string n as arguments
Now we need to add the base case here
The for loop will be terminated when value of I
reaches the middle of string That is n by two
So right the base case
If I equal to n by two return now we
have added the base case and recursive call So inside
that just swap the first and last characters
And that's it we have converted the iterative logic into
Recursive logic
So what we did is we added the iterating variable
as the parameter replace the loop with a recursive
call and place the termination condition as the base case.